We cannot express
to you baptism candidates around the world
how much of a privilege it is for us
to share in this occasion with you.
You are following through
on the most important decision
you’ve ever made
—to make it known publicly
that you have dedicated your life to God.
We know your situations vary.
Some of you candidates
were raised knowing about Jehovah,
but you had to develop your own
personal relationship with him.
Others of you may be taking this step
after learning about Jehovah more recently.
But whatever your circumstances,
likely it was a journey
—a figurative road
you had to travel to get to this point.
In fact, the Bible also compares true worship
to a road, a path,
or a walkway that has to be traveled.
At Acts 9:2,
as the first-century
Christian congregation was being established,
Jesus’ disciples used the term “The Way”
to designate their newly established
form of worship.
They understood that as baptized Christians,
they were walking on a new path
and every aspect of their lives was involved.
And that’s going to be
the case for you as well.
In fact, note how the Bible describes this.
Turn with me, please,
to the book of Ephesians.
And note what is stated
in Ephesians chapter 4,
and we’ll read verses 22 through 24.
There it says: “You were taught
to put away the old personality
“that conforms
to your formal course of conduct
“and that is being corrupted
according to its deceptive desires.
“And you should continue to be made new
“in your dominant mental attitude,
“and should put on the new personality
“that was created according to God’s will
in true righteousness and loyalty.”
So like the first-century Christians,
you have come to know
the truth about Jehovah.
And the things you’ve learned
have led you to become baptism candidates.
Like all of God’s people,
you’ve done what verse 22 states,
“put away the old personality.”
But there in verse 23,
we must also “continue to be made new
in [our] dominant mental attitude.”
This involves our thoughts
—what we allow our mind to dwell on.
Now, you know, the footnote for that verse
indicates this term could also be rendered
as “the force actuating [our] mind”
or literally translated
“to the spirit of your mind.”
In the English language,
perhaps you’ve heard someone say
that they are in good spirits
or you’ve heard someone
described as being mean-spirited.
Well, that’s a description
of one’s dominant mental attitude
—one’s thoughts and motivations.
It’s what moves us to act the way that we do.
Our goal as baptized servants of Jehovah
is to gain a dominant mental attitude
that aligns and is in harmony
with God’s thoughts.
Now, that won’t always be easy.
It takes time and a lot of effort.
Those who walk
in the way of peace
often encounter trials.
And to stay on that road,
we must be willing to make sacrifices.
Like some of those first-century Christians,
we may have to endure direct persecution.
But if we continue to walk in Jehovah’s way,
we’re going to be happy
and Jehovah is going to bless us.
At Luke 1:79, he assures us
that he will “guide our feet
in the way of peace.”
That’s a comforting thought, isn’t it?
So we’re excited.
We’re excited that you baptism candidates
have undertaken this journey.
And know that you have
some eight and a half million
other Witnesses on this road with you.
And today,
it is our honor and privilege to welcome you
—to welcome you to Jehovah’s way of peace
and “the road leading off into life.”
As we go through our discussion today,
we’re going to answer three questions.
First, why is it important
that we do not give up
on walking in Jehovah’s way of peace?
Second,
how does walking
in Jehovah’s way bring us peace?
And third, what can we do
to continue walking
in Jehovah’s way of peace?
Well, let’s address our first question:
Why is it important that we do not give up
on walking in Jehovah’s way of peace?
Now, to answer that, let’s turn, please,
to 2 Corinthians chapter 4.
And we’ll note
2 Corinthians 4:16-18.
There it reads:
“Therefore, we do not give up,
“but even if the man
we are outside is wasting away,
“certainly the man we are inside
is being renewed from day to day.
“For though the tribulation
is momentary and light,
“it works out for us a glory
“that is of more and more
surpassing greatness and is everlasting;
“while we keep our eyes,
“not on the things seen,
but on the things unseen.
“For the things seen are temporary,
but the things unseen are everlasting.”
Do you see why we can’t give up?
It’s because being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
requires that we remain active
and persevere in the way of peace.
You dear candidates have not given up
in your efforts to please Jehovah
and to qualify to become part of his people.
And why is that?
It’s because of your love for him.
And you know that any trials
and obstacles you face now
are “momentary and light”
when compared to an eternity
in God’s new world.
Today, you will enter
into a special relationship
with Jehovah God.
So don’t let anyone or anything
jeopardize that relationship.
Let it be something that you cherish
because that relationship is everlasting.
So keep walking in Jehovah’s way of peace.
Focus on what it means
to have him as a Friend,
to have him guiding your steps.
If you don’t give up,
then despite any trials you face,
you will continue
to enjoy Jehovah’s blessings.
And we’re confident that you can do so.
But to highlight how this can be done,
at this time,
we’re pleased to introduce
Sister Indira Alfonso.
Sister Alfonso was baptized in 2006
and now serves with her husband
as Bethel family members in Warwick.
Sister Alfonso,
can you tell us a little about your journey,
how you became associated
with Jehovah’s Witnesses?
Yes, I was born in Cuba,
but my mom and I moved
to the United States when I was nine.
Even though I was young,
I felt it was important to look for God.
So whenever we moved,
I would visit the local churches in the area,
even getting baptized in a number of them.
When I was 11, my mom
let me move in with my aunt,
who was one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
And from there, she asked my mom
if I could study with a pioneer sister
from her congregation, and my mom agreed.
Well, it’s nice to see
that even at a young age
you had a spiritual need.
So during this time
leading up to your baptism
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
did you encounter any trials
that threatened to make you give up?
Yes, I did.
I made changes very quickly.
I stopped celebrating holidays
and stopped praying to idols.
But these changes
were very strange to my mom
—just difficult for her to understand.
She was really afraid
that I was being brainwashed.
So after studying for several months,
she had me move back in with her,
which meant the end of my studies
and no more attending meetings.
It wasn’t long before my association
was affecting my speech and my behavior.
I found myself easily influenced
to even celebrate my birthday again.
I could feel I was moving further away
from Jehovah instead of closer to him.
I’m sorry to hear that, Sister Alfonso.
So, what helped you not to give up
and to go on walking in the way of peace?
What helped me was the scripture
at Matthew 10:37,
where Jesus said:
“Whoever has greater affection for father
or mother than for me is not worthy of me.”
I realized that a peaceful
relationship with Jehovah
might mean no peace with my family.
But I knew that if I were
to ever gain my mom,
I had to walk with Jehovah
the right way and not give up.
So one night, I prayed to him,
crying for forgiveness
and asking for his help.
And to my surprise,
a few days later without any explanation,
my mom had me move back in with my aunt.
So I resumed my Bible studies,
and a year later
at the age of 15, I got baptized.
Jehovah clearly heard
and answered your prayer.
Since then, have you seen
continued evidence of Jehovah’s guidance?
A good friend helped me to adjust the way
I was communicating with my mom.
So one day, I called her and expressed to her
how much I truly appreciate and love her.
I didn’t want us to be distant anymore.
I explained to her
that my love for her had never changed,
but my love for Jehovah had come first.
So that conversation
was a turning point for us.
Now we have had many positive discussions,
and she’s much more understanding
of my decision.
Seeing Jehovah’s guidance in my life
makes me determined
to continue walking in his way of peace.
Thank you so much, Sister Alfonso.
We appreciate
your faithful example and comments.
Well, let’s address our second point.
How does walking in Jehovah’s way
bring us peace?
And to answer this,
we’re going to compare the path,
or journey, you’ve taken on the road to life
with a literal road, or walkway.
And in making this comparison,
we find a number of similarities.
First, both roads have boundaries,
a purpose, and a destination.
Well, let’s start
with that first one: boundaries.
On a literal road, we may see “Yield”
or “Do Not Enter” signs,
guardrails on the side of the road,
or lines on the road
to help us stay in our lane.
Well, those are boundaries.
And those boundaries
are there for our protection
because if we step outside of them,
we risk getting hurt or lost.
It would be great if we could tell you
that as you continue
on the road to life after your baptism,
we would love to say that the rest
of your journey is smooth sailing.
You’ll have nothing but safe travels.
But the reality is
that you will face challenges
and tests of your faith.
The Devil will make sure of it.
He will make sure
that you are confronted
with temptations.
He wants to do whatever he can
to damage
your special relationship with Jehovah.
But we’re confident that you can succeed.
You can be successful and avoid danger
if you remain within the boundaries
of Jehovah’s way of peace.
Now, how do you stay
within those boundaries?
By continuing to learn
about Jehovah’s laws
and principles and obeying them.
That obedience will not only protect you,
but it will give you inner peace
—peace that comes
from having a clean conscience.
The next similarity between a literal road
and being on the road to life
that we’ll discuss
is having a purpose.
Now, when we travel on a literal road,
our plan usually is not to get on the road
and just stand still (to become stationary)
or watch other people or vehicles go by.
No, we’re there for a reason.
The purpose of the road
is to enable movement
—to help us get from one place to another.
Well, in a similar sense,
being on Jehovah’s way of peace
allows you to move forward,
to make continual spiritual progress.
And, of course, there are many ways
that we can make spiritual advancement.
One important way
that all Christians can do so
is by cultivating spiritual qualities.
This is so pleasing to Jehovah.
Consider with me, for example,
Galatians 6:10.
Notice what’s mentioned here
at Galatians chapter 6,
verse 10.
It says: “So, then, as long as we
have the opportunity,
“let us work what is good toward all,
but especially toward those
related to us in the faith.”
So one way to advance spiritually
is to look for ways
to do good things for others,
both inside and outside the congregation.
This pandemic has afforded us
many opportunities to do this.
We’ve been able to call and check on others
and distribute food or supplies when needed.
And think of what our brothers
have done time and again to assist others
during natural disasters.
So take a minute and think
about your local area.
How can you work what is good toward all?
Are there ones
that need assistance getting food
or running errands?
Is there someone who could use
a good word of encouragement
to cheer them up?
Do we know individuals
who have lost loved ones in death
with whom we could share words of comfort
or maybe simply provide a listening ear?
You see, by displaying spiritual qualities
—qualities such as kindness,
compassion, hospitality, generosity—
you’re going to feel deeply rewarded
for doing these things.
And you’re pleasing Jehovah
because you will show that your purpose
for being on the road to life
is not just to save yourself
but to help others.
Now, there was a third similarity
between being on a literal road
and being on the road to life.
In both cases,
we have a destination
that we want to reach.
Traveling on a literal path
will eventually take you to your destination.
And as a Witness of Jehovah,
our journey, our walk,
on this figurative road
will lead us to our destination
—the goal of enjoying
a peaceful friendship with God forever.
Although we long for that time
in God’s new world,
even now we can experience
the blessings and inner peace
that come from a life of service to Jehovah.
We now have the privilege
to speak with Sister Gloria Herd.
Sister Herd has been baptized
for over 70 years
and has enjoyed a rich spiritual life
in special full-time service
with her husband,
Brother Samuel Herd of the Governing Body.
Sister Herd, you’ve had
many rich spiritual blessings,
and we know that you’ve encountered
challenges along the way.
But as you’ve carried out
these assignments through the years,
walking in Jehovah’s way of peace,
how have you managed
to enjoy greater inner peace?
I’ve learned, Brother Turner,
that if Jehovah gives you an assignment,
he will give you what you need to fulfill it.
We learned and really benefited
from the traveling overseers and their wives.
It was such a privilege to serve along
with these faithful brothers and sisters,
and several of them had served me
and my family when I was very young.
So to see their faithfulness,
to see their happiness,
and to see that they really had inner peace
really benefited me.
I learned from that,
and I wanted to follow their example.
That help from others can be so valuable.
How else have you managed?
I’ve enjoyed inner peace too
from praying to Jehovah a lot.
Many times we had
very little money or no money,
but we never missed a meal,
and we never missed any theocratic event.
We learned that having no money
is not an obstacle to Jehovah.
He heard our prayers, he answered them,
and it was as if the blessing
sometimes just fell out of heaven.
Prayer can be so powerful.
Thank you for sharing that.
But now, how has walking
in Jehovah’s way of peace
helped you to have peace with others?
I worked and lived with many sisters,
and they all had different personalities.
So I learned that I had
to apply Romans 12:18,
where it says:
“As far as it depends [upon me],
be peaceable with all men [and women].”
So I learned that I have to adjust
my personality sometimes to keep peace.
This happened very often.
But one time, we moved in
with a sister on Tuesday morning,
and something I said upset her very much.
She got very angry.
Well, I decided not to pursue the issue
because I had to live with her for a week.
And I just decided
to let her see by my conduct
that I could never have meant
what she thought.
So as the week went by,
the days went by, the tension lessened.
And by Monday when we left,
we were the best of friends.
And she gave me a big hug,
and nothing more was said about the subject.
Well, it sounds like you
handled that beautifully, Sister Herd.
Your spiritual qualities were evident.
Well, finally, how has walking
in Jehovah’s way of peace
helped you have peace with God?
Well, when you see Jehovah act
on your behalf over and over and over again,
it makes you feel that you have his approval.
Now that Sam and I are in our senior years,
we feel He has given us
‘the desire of our heart’
by allowing us to serve at Bethel,
which had been our goal for many years.
And I know that as long as
I stay faithful to Jehovah,
he will continue to grant me inner peace.
And we have that confidence as well.
Thank you so much, Sister Herd.
We deeply appreciate your comments
and your encouraging expressions.
Well, let’s now address our final point.
What can we do to continue walking
in Jehovah’s way of peace?
Well, let’s go back
to our illustration of the road.
On a literal road,
travelers may need to make adjustments
in response to changing road conditions
or bad weather.
Similarly, as you go on walking
in the way of peace,
you will need to readjust your actions
and thinking from time to time.
Recently, a circuit overseer
shared an interesting point
regarding our thoughts
and attitudes on matters.
He said that they could either serve
as a prison or a passport:
a prison, in that our thoughts and actions
can confine or restrict us
or a passport,
in that they can take us where we need to be.
Well, right now, we need to be
and stay on this road to life.
So we want to make sure
that any needed adjustments are made
in our thoughts and our actions
so that we’re not confined or restricted
in making spiritual progress.
Well, what might be some areas
that we’ll need to make adjustments?
Notice, please, Paul’s words
in 2 Corinthians chapter 13.
And we’ll read 2 Corinthians 13:11.
Paul says: “Finally, brothers,
“continue to rejoice, to be readjusted,
“to be comforted, to think in agreement,
“to live peaceably;
and the God of love
and of peace will be with you.”
Did you notice three areas in this verse
where Paul states we can make adjustments?
First, he says: “Continue to rejoice.”
We can lose our peace and joy
if we become overwhelmed
by the anxieties of life.
So in order to rejoice,
can you make it a goal to focus on things
that bring joy rather than sadness?
So if you’re not feeling well
or coping with chronic pain,
you can focus on God’s promise
of when no one will say:
“I am sick.”
If you’re facing opposition for your beliefs,
focus on the fact
that we’re part of a brotherhood
—a brotherhood that supports
and prays for us—
and arrangements are in place
to keep us spiritually strong.
If you’re discouraged by world events,
you can rejoice in the fact
that you have a hope for the future,
and we know how this all ends.
We know that better times are ahead.
The point is, Don’t let negative thoughts
restrict or limit your progress.
Instead, make the needed adjustments
so that you can move forward
and continue to rejoice.
Note another area for readjustment
that Paul mentions in verse 11.
There he says: “Continue . . .
to think in agreement.”
There were members of the congregation
back in the first century
that were promoting apostate ideas.
Others were introducing controversial ideas
that were not directly unscriptural,
but they were divisive.
This resulted in bickering
and arguments over words,
really creating
a spiritually unhealthy atmosphere.
Well, what’s going to help us
to continue to think in agreement?
Remember Paul’s words at 2 Timothy 2:23
to “reject foolish and ignorant debates,
knowing that they produce fights.”
Of course, we react strongly
when facing issues
that clearly violate Jehovah’s moral laws.
But if no Scriptural principle
is being violated,
we’re wise to abstain
from promoting our personal opinions.
We want to do all we can to avoid starting
or being drawn into disagreements
that can disrupt the peace
of the congregation.
Now, back in verse 11,
a third area where we can make adjustments
is to continue “to live peaceably.”
Did you notice
from the interview with our sisters
what they both did when challenged,
when faced with a challenge
that threatened their peace?
They took the matter to Jehovah in prayer.
They reflected on scriptures
found in God’s Word.
And then they looked to see
how they could apply those verses
in their particular situation.
It helped them to not only have inner peace
but peace with others as well.
So let your spiritual qualities
shine through.
Continue to work on keeping peace,
showing those qualities
of being loving and generous toward all,
but especially with our close family members,
whether they are Witnesses or not.
Well, we want to conclude
by reminding you baptism candidates
that today marks a significant milestone
in your journey
in your relationship with Jehovah.
So take the time to appreciate
what this day means for you.
We’re so proud of all of you.
You will never regret
the decision you have made
to dedicate your life to Jehovah.
But keep in mind that after today and beyond,
the journey is not yet over.
Really, it’s just the beginning.
So we encourage you
to do all you can
to stay on the road to life.
Keep in mind the points we considered today.
First, do not give up
on walking in Jehovah’s way of peace.
Your life depends on it.
Allow Jehovah to guide your steps.
Second, stay within the boundaries
on the road to life.
Remember, you’re walking with a purpose,
and that will lead you to your destination
—peaceful friendship with Jehovah forever.
And finally, keep making
any needed adjustments
in your thoughts, attitude, and actions
so that you can maintain peace
with Jehovah and peace with others.
If you continue to do these things,
not only will you have peace
but as the last part
of 2 Corinthians 13:11 says:
“The God of love and of peace
will be with you.”
May you always remember that promise,
which Jehovah makes to those
who go on walking in the way of peace.